# Fordgobike Trip Exploration
## by (Patrick Gitau)


## Dataset
The dataset includes information about individual rides made in a bike-sharing system covering the greater San Francisco Bay area.This data set is taken from https://www.fordgobike.com/system-data and represents trips taken by 183,412  members of the service for month of February of 2019.The info about trips taken by service's members, their user types, their age, their gender, stations of starting and ending trips, duration of trips. I'm most interested in figuring out what effect certain features have on the period the trip takes. For this data exploration, we are only going to deal with only 5 features and explore their relation with duration time. Member birth year and member gender have missing values hence dropped. The data was grouped in terms of ages; Old,Adult, Teen to help ease up visualization.

## Summary of Findings
Duration had a long-tailed distribution, with a lot of bikers on taking on the low duration end and few on the high duration end. Most of the members are between the age of 20 and 40 years and most of the bikers in the dataset are subscribers (91%) while only 9% are customer. Males are the dominant gender in the dataset followed by female while the others make up the least number of members. There was no much bike share through the trip. From the age grouping, the data is found to have of the members as teen followed by adults and the old make up the least number of members. However, in terms of proportion to the total number of age groups, most of the old age members share the bike during the trip followed by the teen and lastly the adult members. This is the reverse for members who don't share the bike.
For the distribution of the duration in terms of the age groups show that majority of the population didn't have a high duration time; mostly on the 500 to 1000 sec. Those with high duration time can be termed as Young population while the old take the lowest duration time but also there are few old members in the data. In terms of proportion to the total number of age groups, most of the old age members share the bike during the trip followed by the teen and lastly the adult members. 
Most of all the age groups are subscribers while a few are customer,with teen having the highest number of customers and subscribers followed by adult and the old lastly. It is observed that no customer share their bike for the trip which is very motivating as compared to subscribers. With the customer not sharing their bike for the trip the male and the female genders are the dominant with most of them in the age range of 18 to 75. Those who don't share their bike for the trip are also observed to have a higher duration time of about 2500 as compared to 1500 for those who share the bike. 
## Key Insights for Presentation
For the presentation, I will introduce the data by giving a short overview of the data. I focus on just the influence on the user type, members gender, bike share for the trip and the age of the member on the duration time. To begin, I will start to by showing the distribution of the duration time and the meambers age to get an insight about the dataset.
Afterwards, I introduce each of the Nominal variables one by one showing their relation with one another. For some data exploration, the dataset will have to grouped in term of age groups.
Finally, I will show the relation of this categorical variable with the duration time.